Explanation of Email Header Analyzer Code
1. What this script does:
It takes a raw email header and email body as input.

Extracts important info like:

Sender and recipient emails.

Subject of the email.

All the “Received” lines showing the path the email took.

IP addresses involved in sending the email.

Checks the email body for simple suspicious words (like "malware" or "phishing").

Prints all this info nicely for the user to understand.

2. Main parts of the code:
a) import re
We use the re module for regular expressions, which helps us search for patterns like email addresses or IP addresses inside the text.

b) extract_ip_addresses(header)
This function looks for all IP addresses inside the header.

It uses a regex pattern to find numbers in the format x.x.x.x (where x is 0-255).

Returns a list of all IP addresses found.

c) extract_received_lines(header)
Email headers have multiple lines starting with “Received:” which show how the email traveled from server to server.

This function collects all those “Received:” lines into a list.

d) extract_basic_info(header)
Finds the From, To, and Subject lines in the header.

Uses regex to find the content after those words.

Returns a dictionary with those values (or "N/A" if not found).

e) check_suspicious_keywords(email_body)
Looks for common bad words related to malware or phishing inside the email body.

It converts the body to lowercase and checks if words like "malware", "phishing", "trojan", etc. appear.

If yes, it warns the user by printing a message.

f) analyze_email(header, body)
This is the main function that calls the other functions.

Prints the extracted info step by step:

Basic email info (From, To, Subject).

The Received header lines.

All IP addresses found.

Suspicious keywords warning (if any).

g) The if __name__ == "__main__": block
This means the code inside runs only if you run this script directly.

It asks the user to paste the email header line by line, until a blank line is entered.

Then asks to paste the email body similarly.

Finally, it calls analyze_email() to print the results.

3. How this helps and what you learn:
You practice working with multi-line user input.

You learn to use regular expressions to find patterns in text.

You get familiar with how email headers contain useful info for security analysis.

You understand basic concepts of malware/phishing detection by keyword spotting.

You improve skills in breaking down problems into small functions.

4. Limitations
It doesn’t actually scan attachments or deep content for malware.

Keyword checking is very basic and can’t replace real antivirus or threat intelligence.

It’s a starting point to understand email analysis and can be expanded.

5. Next steps (if you want to improve)
Parse full email format with Python’s email module.

Check URLs in email body for malicious links.

Scan attachments or integrate with antivirus APIs.

Add GUI or web interface for easier use.
